\‘I

Mitt. E «at: inn
a” m; ._§"’;’3 3" ’
Approximations {or Digital Computers 0”“ K Vbu’ yb' ‘

lemg 5,112 . 15h mmlasnu - l_aniI:ai,I'|nuaii

 

Note—l7

APPROXIMATION NEWSLETTER
(Late edition——very)

After a long hiatus, we finally present
another installment of our cartoon strip
adventures.

The Converging 2 Method {Part V)

Let us glance back at the Part IV install—
ment. We finished there with a deviation
decreasing cycle in which the greatest
error of approximation was reduced to
6:.558. In the initial portion of the next
cycle, deviations of magnitude (.556)(.85):
.504 are imposed at i=1 and 1:2, with the
result given in (2) after 'Compute Error
Data.’ Here .395>.558 and this cycle turns
out to be a 'p Increasing Cycle' as indi-
cated in (5).

 

 

The calculation

(1) p=l—+éé2= .925

takes place.

The more delicate touch that is applied in
the next cycle thru use of p=.925 becomes
evident in (4). Note that (.558)(.925)=.351
and that .3517.507. As a result .351 is
imposed at 1:1 and .507 is imposed at i=2.
Because of the situation achieved in

memory B in (4), the control now shifts to
deviations i=0 and i=1 as pictured in (5).

This is the situation that we have been
trying to achieve; nothing now stands in
the way of successful convergence.