January 15, 1957

Dr. R. S. Mulliken
Department of Physics

The University of Chicago
Chicago 37, Illinois

Dear Bob:
In answer to your four questions of January 23

1. There is some spare time right now on Whirlwind but I
imagine that the demand for time will get greater and greater
the nearer we approach the middle of June. If tThere is any
possibllity of your actually using 352 hours or more, you
should plan to use as much of 1t before March ags you can. In
fact, we urge you to get started lmmediately.

5., ONR is the reason that we are having to charge for Whirl-
wind time. For several years the Mathematics Division of ONR
supported Whirlwind directly and we were able to provide
machine time to users as a result. Last year the other divi-
sions of ONR decided that they would not cooperate any longer
with the Mathematics Division and that they preferred to have
their projects pay for Whirlwind time directly rather than
indirectly as was done before. Consequently, it is ONR's
decision that we charge 250 an hour for machine time. The
other divisions of ONR have agreed to provide the necessary
funds to the projects on the budgets. Thils 1ls the reason we
are having to turn Whirlwind back to Lincoln.

3, It is very clear that there willl be no spare Whirlwlind
time next year. Lincoln is going to use 1t for a concentrated
text, which will probably use the full time, and when this
text is finished the machine probably will be scrapped.

4. We can arrange for you to get Whirlwind time on a straight
purchase order. I am enclosing the necessary forms and
instructions.

We hope to hear from you soon concerning your plans.

Yours,

PMM s LWH Philip M. Morse
ce: Dr. Verzuh

Prof. Slater

B Tagdan 9 R RIS sl