Jaq? bus gcos.\_A cantral ‘research sroup, tt:talqmby faculty . memberBA

. '.; ’ ¥

  
  

929,

 

)‘\ ; ?‘ \ 'Y"\ "r ¢ "..f N 5

(@raduste ctuddﬁfi”@f MI?A working closely with persons from
theAothtracollegosi-will.he;phcoogQinate-thqvwork_ptwtng,cqntep_y@
and will carry on research of their own in machine logiec, in tech-
niques of machine computation, and in specific applications of
machine operation to experimental and theoretical problems, thus
appreciably broadening the range of applicability of computers in
the physical and social sciences and in engineering.

It 1is appropriate for government agencles to help support the'
reaoarch of this central research group. The group's work ‘will,
in part, provide an expanding basis of kﬁowledse of numerical
analysis and programming Gechniques, which can be used by the other
participants at the Center and will, in part, break ground ln new
fields of mathematical logic and methods of data processing which
will be needed in the application of digital computers to new tasks.,

Most of the senlor staff for such a research group is already
assembled at the Institute., Part of it is the group which developed
Whirlwind I programming; others are in various departments of the
Institute. From time to time, some of the staff of the participating
colleges would Join it for a semester or a year, on leave from their
institution, to work full-time at the Center. Tﬁe&éamqﬁzdt»sbmegaf.
the staffy.and thelr sxperience;-are-listed in Ap

 

IBM and the Institute will contribute about a half million
dollars a year to provide the equipment, bullding, maintenance, and
operating staff of the Center. We believe that a contribution of
about 100,000 a year will support the activities of the central

o