VS“XK&»tb‘kﬁﬂLng
Cb?wv?ﬁﬁX} ;K&
Approximations for Digital Computers : .\

Cecil Hastinazs, Jr. © 136 Kuuala Street Lanikai, Hawaii

Note-17

APPROXIMATION NEWSLETTER
(Late edition--very)

After a long hiatus, we finally present
another installment of our cartoon strip
adventures,

The Converging P Method (Part V}

Let us glance back at the Bart IV install-—
ment. We finished there with a deviation
decreasing cycle in which the greatest
érror of approximation was reduced to
€=.558. In the initial portion of the next
cycle, deviations of magnitude (.358)(.385)=
- 504 are imposed 8t i=1 and i=2, with the
result given in (2) after 'Compute Error
Data.,' Here «295%.358 and this cycle turns
out to be a 'p Increasing Cycle' as indi-
cated in (3).

The calculation

(1) pR= L =CORE RN

takes place.

The more delicate touch that is applied in
the next cycle thru use of p=.925 becomes
évident in (4). Note that (.358)(.925)=,33]
and that .3317.307., as a result .3%33] is
imposed at i=1 and .507 is imposed at 1=2,
Because of the situation achieved in ;
memory B in (4), the control now shifts to
deviations i=0 and i=] as pPictured in (5),

This is the situation that we have been
Trying to achieve; nothing now stands in
the way of Successful convergence.