Computation Center will have g" storage capacity of this site. Some.
or the proposed schemes should be tried out, and others developed,
by members or the Center staff working with persons familiar with
the information and its uses.‘ For example.a proJeet in machine
translation has already been set up. under the direction of
Professor looks or the language Depart-eat. As it develops, it

. will need the help or machine programing specialists and will
need the use era machine to that its ideas. The translation
project is already supported by the Rockefeller Foundation, but ‘
parallel'werk by the Computation Center on techniques for rapid
access to large-quantity date would help this work as well as
others. Another promising direction of investigation is in the
application of machine techniques to library inventorying,
cataloguing, and record-keeping. Although special-purpose
machines will probably be required in the end, many ideas and
procedures can be developed and checked out on the general-
purpose machine at the Center with the addition, perhaps, of some
specially built input and output equipment. The staff of the

MIT Library is interested in this work and will contribute its
knowledge to its progress.

C. Perhaps the most promising line of advance, in part
because the least investigated up till now, is in the field of
social science experiments, where the computer can be used as
recorder, scorer and referee. Tactical situations in warfare are

already being studied by "gaming techniques" at Hand and in other

military operations research groups. Similar problems in various

fields of the social sciences can also be studied by simplifying