In the long run, the various soclal scientists in New
England will probably learn enough about machine operation to be
able to make the machine useful to them. But it takes time to
learn to program a machine of this size, and research workers in
any fileld are reluctant to take much time off to learn new tech-
niques. In addition, to get the most out of a computer one should
have more than a casual knowledge of the electronic details of it
operation. This combination of knowledge, of a social science and
of a computer, will probably be developed in our next generation
of research workers. But if we want to get started using computers
in social science now, we will have to use a team: a man who knows
the field plus a man who knows the machine.

Need for a Research Staff in Machine Ufilization, an
ingredient in the Team

This last ingredient 1s the part which 1is left out of
the contribution which IBM has made to the Computation Center. To
put the Center at the forefront of research, we must have a full-
time staff of enthuslastic machine specialists, to teach prospective
users how to make the machine do its tricks and to join with
research workers who come with a "gleam in their eye", forming
teams which can utilize to the fullest the computer's capabilities
in research. This staff will be hard, but not impossible, to
recrult. We have the beginnings of one formed now, at present
slanted chlefly toward research in the physical sciences, and we
have obtained an NSF grant of 35,000 a year for three years to
support it. We have the graduate student bodies of the partici-
pating institutions to pick from and we have already begun to make
contact with those students who are interested in machine utiliza-
tion. There are about two dozen IBM research assistants appointed
for this year. We should be able to pick from the best of these a
few who would like toc stay on for two or three years more, after
they have obtained thelr advanced degrees in engineering, mathe-
matics or sclence, to be a part of our research staff, potential
members of research teams. g

Budget for the Social Sciences

To make up a staff which could handle the social sclence
problems as well as the physical science ones would need another
four or five good men, research men plus fhe technicians to back
them up, plus a small budget for travel and incidental supplies
and equipment, approximately Â£35,000 a year for three years. It
would take about three years to get rolling and the developments
should be reviewed at the end of three years, to see where to go
next. Such a staff should be more important during the beginning
stages of the utlillization of electronic computers, when the prob-
lems are not toc clearly formulated and when neither partner in
the team knows the other's plans and lideas. Later, when some of
the more important potentialities have been demonstrated, the
research can be split up into projects, each with a definite goal
and with its own budget, which can include partial support for the
continuing staff of the Center. So, eventually, the Center could