Page I,

the most trivial cases, human judgment can be invaluable in
helping the machine to develop such "common sense" rules for
particular problems, if the human is in a position to "see what
1s going on” and to "get a feel for what is important”.

That 18 to say, that as of today at least, people are far
better equipped to draw on their past experience, recognize
abstract patterns, to generalize and to unify, whereas a ma-
chine is in a much better position to quickly seek out, oper-
ate upon, and turn out information. The best features of both
have yet to be effectively matched, as a closely meshed team.

b. Large Problems

The latest generation of ultra high speed and capa-
bility computers was developed for the solution of problems in-
volving non-linear partial differential equations. Yet even
these machines are inadequate for several notable classes of
such problems, such as accurate weather forecasting, many-body
problems, deslgn problems in systems involving non-linear func-
tions of space and time, etc. The approach to such problems
would seem to lie far more in the direction of developing bet-
ter approximate modelé (based on machine calculation) rather
than seeking ever-faster and ever-larger computers for solu-
tions that are essentially "brute force". Here too, on-line
human decision that can recognize patterns and generalize from
past experience can hasten the development of such "better"
models., Large problems, in addition, need to be time shared
because of themselves they tend to preempt computers for much
longer periocds of time, and force other ., perhaps quite small
problems to wait.

c. omall Problems

Many stralightforward, and quite trivial (from the
point of view of a large computer) computations are charact-
erlzed primarily by the need for an almost immediate answer,