ONR:430:FJWs j1

18618
8 1

personnel for the purpose of consulting with and helping such service users in
preparing and running their problems, In this way they will get their money's
worth, coming to the machine --as they generally dognot because they want to
but because they have to, and being interested therefore in getting their re-
sults with as little bother to themselves as possible, At the same time the
positions thus created would make good jobs for less gifted students, training
them to become solid computer technicians,

Professor P, M, Morse

A third and somewhat more long-range recommendation would be that of upgrading
the qualifications for the research assistantships allocated by the Committee
on Machine Computations, Since the commitments for the academic year 1954=-1955
are already firm, this would affect only the selections made for the year
following, The field of computer applications is rapidly ceasing to be so
unknown and of such novelty as to require special inducements in order to
attract graduate students during their beginning yesrs., I should like to Pro=-
pose that the holders of these research assistantships during the year 1955-1956
be of such a caliber that they can reasonably be expected to have produced a
substantial research paper for publication by the end of the year. In case the
body of advanced graduate students on hand at MIT provides an insufficient
number of such candidates, it might be possible and should definitely be worth-
while to go beyond the MIT campus in the selection of incumbents, There must
be & growing number of outstanding young researchers on less well equipped
campuses, whose work is forcing them to take an even more substantial interest
in the applications of high-speed computers, Even so we should anticipate

that the total number of awards will be smaller than for the coming year,

My fourth recommendation, finally, is of even longer range., If, in the long
run, MIT!s Digital Computer Laboratory is to compete, as far as the scientific
substance of its work is concerned, with what is being done even now and will
certainly be done in the near future by other university centers in the high-
speed computing field, currently being established at a number of places, it
seems To me inevitable that the staff of the Laboratory must acquire a strong
faculty core, representing both the engineering and the mathematical aspects of
its activity and relating its program closely to the corresponding depart-
ments, These faculty members would be concerned with the academiec training and
research program, made possible by the facilities of the Leboratory, and all
but nominal fractions of their salaries would come from MIT, This would give
them, materially as well as in their thinking, the independence from Government
and other contracts which is necessary to have them establish an imaginative
and original program with assured long-range objectives, Such an arrangement
would unquestionably lead to undertakings in whose sponsorship the Office of
Naval Research would gladly continue to particinate,

If these, or not too different, recormendations are considered to furnish
reasonable guide lines for the future of the Digital Computer Leboratory, the
following disposition of the funds available under our contract appears to be
indicated,