the thesis research and which maintains the scientific tone
of the Institute. Research of this type should not be handi-
capped or abandoned because of difficulty of acceas to high-
spesd computers. If special financing is required for each
piece of research which needs computer time, then the educu-
tional research progrsm will not advance as it should. Cex-
tain restraints on the free use of machines W3y have to be
imposaed, but these should not be financial omes.

The Inctitute is at present ottovgn& the necespary
speclal courses basic for training. There 1s a senior eleg-
tive course, 6.25, which provides a survey of machines and
their general properties. Course Mill provides the basic
mathematical background for numerical analysis, and courses
2.215, 6.535, 6.536, 6.537, 6.538, 6.567 and 6.568 are advanced
courses in coding, programming or in basic machine design
principles. If sufficient access to working machines could be
scheduled for the students in these courses, plus students in
other Jjunior-senior engineering courses which could devote 2
portion of their time to the principles of computing machines,
then the Institute would be in the forefront in regard %o
training in this field.

At present, however, the Institute has made no
direct provision for the use of computers as laboratory
equipment, or for general educational research, as outlined
egbove. What use is now in effect i1s of the nature of a by-
product. Several large research projects nmeed mschines for
thelir own work, but are willing to allow others in the Insti-
tute to use the equipment when it happens to be idle. Whirl-
.wind actually schedules a certain fraction of its time for
users from outside the project. But as training and general
research needs incre√©ease, and perhaps project funds decline,
this process of satisfying our educational requirements by
"gathering up the crumbs" from the projects will be less and
less adequate. The Institute must make arrangement for the
direct financing of computing equipment adequate to train the
next generation of engineers and scientists. '

This is not to say that special projects should be
discouraged from getting and using their own machines or thit
we should frown on special financing for the design and
building of special-purpose machines. These activities have
their own important place in the gemeral Institute program.
But we cannot expect these special projects sutomatically to
satisfy our educatiomal requirements in the field. We do not
attempt to run our laboratory courses by occasionally borrow-
ing the use of DIC equipment. If we are to train enginecery
and scientists in the use of electronic computers, we must