(1) an electric typewriter has been connected to the 704, and
D itten that allows the 704 to be time

are LISP, SAP, and, in addition, Fortran will soon be added.
Time sharing has been proved feasible. (2) Several auxil-
lary devices have been added to the 704 in order to test out
Cheir feasibility. Among these are a so called "Alarm Clock"
which in The larger system will aid in accounting, prorating
of time, and preventing a single program from monopolizing
time. Among the others is a "Light Pen" which can convert

a scope 1into a drafting board for entering curves and fi-
gures, and a paper tape reader which will allow data reduc-
tion problems to be time shared. (3) An overall programming
system for the time sharing called FMIS has been developed
and 1s being used. This programming system while being de-
veloped largely to serve as a means of communication be-
tween programmer at a typewriter and his program, has also,
in addition, proved that programs can coexist in memory with-
out mutual interference, without the need of either a change
in the logilcal construction of a machine, or by recourse to
normal time consuming fully interpretive running of programs.
The system, in addition, has broad applicability to the gen-
eral problem of using the computer as an aid for on-line
program testing (debugging).

Future Plans:

The largest, non technical problem faced by the project
is to secure sufficient funding and staffing to carry out its
program. Work is being carried out in laying out the overall
research and development program necessary to achieve the
system capabilities desired.

With the present manpower and facilities at the disposal
of the project, work is being carried out in the following

I .
1.1- <'. ’7 \;:'- ‘~‘ -