ﬁinutes of the Eighth Meeting of the
Committee on Machine hethods of Computation —2—

ensuing interim between now and the first of July 1952, he felt
they could make arrangements so that the extra fifty percent of
the analyzer's time would be made available to the Institute
and to other projects with the assistance and advice of the Com-
mittee. It was felt that precedents could be set up concern
those projects for which transfer of funds was needed and those
researches woich could be given the use of the machine without
charge. It was suggested that we work these precedents up
mutually as the examples came along. This general proposal
seemed quite satisfactory to the Committee, and Morse indicated
that he would mention this discussion to Dr. Stratton, empha-
sizing, however, that Draper had not reached a final decision
concerning these questions.

In answer to another query, Laning and Draper felt that
Verzuh could be relieved of his responsibilities concerning the
differential analyser this next term. 'hey felt it was wise to
'give Verzuh time to get his doctor’s thesis under Way, and felt

that the Spring Term of this year might be the best time to do
so. ,

ential analyzer which had come to the attention of Professor
Den Hertog. Arrangements were made to confer with the repre-
sentatives of this company to see whether the project was one
meriting work on the machine.

Horse reported a coming meeting at Princeton concerned with
training for the use of computing machines. He asked that the
members of the Committee make suggestions on possible subjects
for discussion at this meeting. The thesis proposal of Salzer
was discussed. It was agreed that horse would write to Brown,
saying that the Committee recommended Salzer's thesis be a -
proved by the Electrical Engineering Department, and that opal,
being on the thesis committee, would keep in touch with the
work. The Committee also discussed the proposal for a labora«
tory course in digital computers to be given this coming term
by Mr. Adams. It was agreed that Morse should write the Elec~
trical Engineering Department recommending that this course be
given as a special problem course this coming term, the possi-
bility for permanent course number being taken up later.

The next meeting of the Committee will be some time the
first week of the second term. It was agreed that the Com-