ﬂ

 

Approximations for Digital Computers

§,Jr. . 13h rimnla 51m: - Laniimi, Hmknii

 

Corii lids!

Note—l7

APPROXIMATION NEWSLETTER
(Late edition—-very)

After a long hiatus, we finally present
another installment of our cartoon strip
adventures.

The Converging 2 Method {Part V}

Let us glance back at the Part IV install—
ment. We finished there with a deviation
decreasing cycle in which the greatest
error of approximation was reduced to
6:.558. In the initial portion of the next
cycle, deviations of magnitude (.356)(.65):
.304 are imposed at i=l and 1:2, with the
result given in (2) after 'Compute Error
Data.’ Here .395>.558 and this cycle turns
out to be a 'p Increasing Cycle' as indi—
cated in (5).

 

The calculation

(1) 129—332: .925

takes place.

the next cycle thru use of p=.925 becomes
evident in (4). Note that (.358)(.925)=.551
and that .5517.507h As a result .351 is
imposed at i=1 and .507 is imposed at 122.
Because of the situation achieved in

memory B in (4), the control now shifts to
deviations i=0 and i=1 as pictured in (5).

This is the situation that we have been
trying to achieve; nothing now stands in
the way of successful convergence.


Approximations for Digital Computers

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

p=.85
The Converging p
Method
(PortV)
(I)
r
p inczreosing Cycle
p: 85*925
(3) $4)
5:352
One More
Time
L
(6)


