B

 

Equipment, Personnel and Budget

 

The suggested budget for three years is tentative and is
more dependent on our ablility to hire one or two more experts in
computer programming than on the amount of work to be done. If we
can find more men of the right sort, more work can be done. During
the calendar year 1957 we may not be able to find more than one
senlor man, one or two post-doctoral fellows and a couple of tech-
nical assistants. By the fall of 1957 we may be able to persuade
one or two faculty members of the cooperating institutions to spend
appreclable fractions of their time at the Center, working on some
of the problems mentioned earlier. A suitable fraction of their
salaries should be carried by the research funds of the Center
and, if the work is in the social scliences, would be chargeable
to the proposed grant. Some of the experiments in "gaming" will
require special input or output equipment. Therefore it may turn
out that less than 335,000 will be spent the first year, more than
835,000 the second. The important point, however, is that because
of the presence of the equipment of the Center, supported by IBM,
the majority of the budget of this grant can be spent on salaries
for people directly carrying out the research outlined in this
proposal.

The staff can begin to be assembled this spring, but
expenditures would probably not reach full rate until the summer
of 1957. Consequently, the grant could officially start March or
April 1957, or could start as late as June, Af some earlier
expenditures could be charged against the grant at that time.