January 15. 1957

Dr. R. S. Mulliken
Department of Physics

The University or Chicago
Chicago 37, Illinois

Dear Bob:
In answer to your four questions of January 2:

1. There is some spare tune right now on Whirlwind but I
imagine that the demand for time will get greater and greater
the nearer we approach the middle of June. If there is any
possibility of your actually using 32 hours or more, you
should plan to use as much or it before March as you can. In
fact, we urge you to get started immediately.

2. ONR is the reason that we are having to charge for Whirl-
wind time. For several years the Mathematics Division or ONR
supported Whirlwind directly and we were able to provide
machine time to users as a result. Last year the other divi-
sions of ONE decided that they would not cooperate any longer
with the Mathematics Division and that they preferred to have
their projects pay for Whirlwind time directly rather than
indirectly as was done before. Consequently, it is ONR's
decision that we charge $250 an hour for machine time. The
other divisions of ONR have agreed to provide the necessary
funds to the proJects on the budgets. This is the reason we
are having to turn Whirlwind back to Lincoln.

3. It is very clear that there will be no spare Whirlwind
time next year. Lincoln is going to use it for a concentrated
text, which will probably use the full time, and when this
text is finished the machine probably will be scrapped.

#. We can arrange for you to get Whirlwind time on a straight
purchase order. I am enclosing the necessary forms and
instructions.

We hope to hear from you soon concerning your plans.

Yours,

PMM:LWH Philip M. Morse
cc: Dr. Verzuh
Prof. Slater


