page 2

COMPUTING FACILITIES

 

Analog Equipment

A number of small installations of analog equipment of the Philbrick
type are available for educational teaching and research in various de-
partments. There are two separate installations of REAC equipment, a single-
unit REAC in the Servomechanisms Laboratory and a double-unit REAC with
extensive input-output equipment in the Instrumentation Laboratory. A very
large analyzer is available in the Dynamic Analysis and Control Laboratory,
largely for sponsored research.

Punched-Card Equipment

A fairly complete installation of punched-card equipment is available
in the Office of Statistical Services. The usual line of auxiliary machines
are represented: Type 024, 026 Card Punches, Verifiers, Type 075, 080 and
082 Sorters, Type 513 and 514 Reproducing Punches, Type 077 Collators, Type
402 and 403 Accounting Machines, Type 604 Electronic Calculator, and a Card
Programmed Calculator. This equipment is used for scientific computing,
student instruction, and M.I.T. business. A type 650 Magnetic Drum Calcul=-
ator has been ordered and will be available in 1955.

Large Digital Equipment

In addition to the various IBM equipment just listed, the Whirlwind I
computer in the Digital Computer Laboratory is available part-time for ed-
ucational work under O.N.R. sponsorship. This machine is a 35,000 oper=-
ations/second parallel binary machine with magnetic core storage for 2048
16~bit words plus 32,768 words of drum storage, and various input-output
equipment. For both classroom and research work, various automatic coding
routines are available to make the Whirlwind I computer behave as if its
basic word were longer, decimal, and even floating-point.