Research Proposal

Problem: Find a direct deductive method for the determination of
sub-surface geological structures.

At present, sub-surface geology 1s a fine art. OStructures are
inferred by extrapolation from surface maps. Direct methods of
investigating the sub-surface (drill-holes, mine shafts) are often
uneconomic and limited. SÃ©ismic investigstion is a2 semi-direct
method which is again limited in aprlicability and frequently
uneconomic. Indirect methods of sub-surface resezrch such as
measurements of gravitational and magnetic potential are translated
into geologically measningful information only by the exercise of
keen geological insight and lengthy mathematical cut and try proced-
ures.

If a generalized program for a computer would be prepared to
take over the mathematical calculstions associated with the analysis
of potentisl measurements, we would be very close to a direct,
deductive procedure. Reasonable exercise of geological judgement
plus a gravimeter plus this ideal computer program would yield a
geologicslly satisfactory interpretation of subsurface structure.
The combinztion could be a totally new and extremely powerful tool
for geological research.

Required: I believe that I can do something on this in a summer if

I can devote my full time to it. Gravimetric measurements are avail-
able in abundance (with satisfzctory geological interpretation). As
I near a program, I should require some secretarial assistance in
preparing punch cards and later somey machine time.

Backpround: Ph.D.,Cornell, 1954 (Geology Dept., Mineralogy, Economic
Geology, and History of Science); one gravity profile run over an
area previously mapped by me; one week of introduction to the I.B.M.
650 at Portsmouth Navy Yard; one rough course of lectures on the

704 at the University of New Hampshire; one and one half years as
mining geologist in Peru.

General: This is actually part of a larger program that I have in
mind. My concern is with methods in geological science which have
for a long time been largely descriptive. With new tools and new
methods such as the computer, I should hope that we could become
more analytic and less positivistic. I should like to demonstrate
the possibility of & new tool and a new direction in geologicsal
thinking by successfully apulying the computer to this problen.

Cecil J. Schneer, Assistant Professor of Geology
University of New Hampshire
Durham, New Hampshire

January 13, 1958