-5

an over-all grasp of its properties. Such "gaming techniques"

are closely related to the experiments of Bavelas on the behavior
of task-oriented groups. The use of a properly programmed computer
would provide such experiments with a powerful and flexlble means
of changing, controlling, and analyzing these experiments in social
psychology. In this field we could work in close collaboration
with the Center for International Studies at M.I.T. and with the
psychology departments in several other colleges.

Proposed Budget - The three general areas of study Jjust mentioned
are examples of fields of research in computer techniques quite
different from those used in the physical sciences, but ones
equally important and promising. The budget for the group to work
in the physical sciences will run about g100,000 a year. A group
of roughly equal size would be needed for the parallel work 1in

the social sciences. The added staff would be, in part, soclal
scientists with an interest in computers and in part mathematicians
and computer specialists with an interest in social science. The
group should work together for several years. An appropriaie raie
and duration would be g100,000 a year for five years.

Thilis budget would be administered by The Computation

Center and would be for the support of a group, working at the
Center, investigating wachine tTechnigues of partlicular valuc ix
the social sciences, as discussed earlier in this proposal. When
other divisions, such as the Sloan School or the Economics Depart-
ment at Harvard, are able to organize research or educational
programs which utilize these techniques in their fields, with %
separate financial support, they will find a nucleus of collabora-
tors and advisors at the Center, which can see that their program
does, in fact, utilize the facilitlies of the Center in an effective
manner.

 

PMM: JM

March 7, 1956