-2

Anong other pro:ccta, the staff ot ths Presra-lins i
Research Group at the c-ntcr haa actively aslaatod the R. L.8.~~
Language Translation Pro:oct in the d.volopnont, prosra-ning. 2.
and coding of the COMIT compiler-interpreter which, in etroet.'
defines a manipulating language for the purposes of linquistic
study and machine translation. In.addition. the Center has lent
suppeort to other groups such.aa the Artiticial Intcllzsanco
Project which has made great strides in the development of the
LISP programming language. The LISP language is designed to
taoilitato the prooesains of symbolic zntoruatzon, as opponcd to
â€˜numeric information. It will be applied to problems such as '_
symbolic differentiation and_tntesrataon and the manipulation of
formal proofs in symbolic logic and related areas. At present,
effort is being devoted to arrange for multi-program time-sharlng
operation of the computer. The Iatter feature should allow the
development of new techniques of machine utilization which as yet
are largely unexplored but which are becoming urgently desirable
as faster machines are built. More extensive descriptions of these
activities are given in the uomi-annnal progress roparta of the
Center.

The Center also has participated in educational activities
at both M.I.T. and New England institutions. In addition to the
special two-week programming course which is given in August for
students and faculty, there have been many instances in which the
Center has been used as a laboratory for the testing of classroom
coding exercises. '