wemorandum to

From P,li,llorse, Director ii. I. T. Computation Center,

vubject: Replaceuent of 704 by a 7090.

Backgro - In June, 1957, somewhat less than three years
ago, ak§O4 wes installed at the Computation Center by IBE, under
a special agrecment whereby IBH maintains the equipment, contrie-
butes toward amort1Z1ng the additions to the Compton Laboratory
which house the Center and supports a numnber of research assoe
clates who assist users of the machine, and BIT staffs and oper=
ates the Center for the use of MIT and other cooperating New
England colleges and universities, The primary purpose of the
arranzement is to enable students and faculty of these instit-

utions to learn how $o use high-speed computing machines, so that
the next generation of scientists, engineers and industrial exece—
utives will be familiar with machine capabilities == in other
words the primary purpose is to demonstrate that such machines
are as important a part of the educational equipnient of a modern
college as are chenistry laboratories, for example., A secondary
purpose is to foster research in the use of computing machines,
particularly in those fields of applicetion which have not yet
been explored or exploited fully,

To this end, priority on 704 time has been accorded to

regular class use by courses in machine programning and applicae.
tions, to studeni thesis research

NS using the nachine in their

and to research projects investizatine new technigques o machine

e

use, Particular attention has been given to making it easy for

the out-of-town users: mail service, special cchOvalnﬂ during

visits and Saturday operation for those who cannot come to Come-

- > 1—’ -' ;
age aur ll?.f; Week aaysS.

 

Present Situation = This program has been outsta: 1dingly
successful: hence the present memorandum. Class use of the 704
has grown rapidly; at nIT there is now a freshman course in
machine use, four upper~-class and a number of esreduste courses

 

|
Ll