Although there 1s complete umanimity in universities,
supporting government agencies, computer manufacturers; and
comperce and industry gensrally as to vhat university computer
activities should ideally be restricted to, there is absclubtely
no agreement either among these groups or even within any one
of thew asg to how such an ideal can be maintained, op how
mach departure from this ideal is tolerable or even feasible.
The reagon for this disagreement about means in the faes of
unenimous agrecment about ends is that the three sources of
support set contradictory limits to the departure from the
ideals what i1s more, such contradictory limits ave set even
if we look at '4 enclies alone,

It is agreed that the ideal is that computer activities
be restricted %o pmfessâ€˜iom}. education, research, and sone
development in the counuber ares, education on computers for
the university and the community at large, and productive
application to support research around the university and
administration within the wniversity, It is agreed that the
ideal does not include productive work for the government s
commerce, and infustry by unlversity personnel, even if,
and some say especially if, any profit can accrue.

It 19 agreed further that s mwmber of new oxpenses appeay
whlech the university has never had to meet before, such as