e

and promises to be a valuable tool in the study of artificial
intelligence and heuristic programs. Although both systems will be
useful in their present forms, they will undoubtedly be limited for
many purposes by basic machine speed.

Time-Shared Usage of Computers

A second approach is to make computers easier to use by simultaneous
computer time-sharing by several users. The complexities of such
systems are largely unexplored but advantages are exciting. Typical
applications might be several real-time program testing stations, each
with a private debugging console, thus giving a programmer time to
think on his feet without wasting valuable machine time. Such stations
could of course be located remotely in various departments at M.I.T.
or even, in principle, at the New England colleges. Finally, special
demonstration consoles would be available in lecture halls for man-
machine interaction demonstrations which might easily be performed in
regular courses.

Present Status

As mentioned above, the number of users from M.I.T. are currently
saturating the allotted time and any reasonable projection indicates a
continued build-up. Secondly, certain applications such as symholic
information processes would appear to have a qualitative improvement
if they can get over certain speed thresholds. The replacement of
the 704 by the 7090 should serve to barely keep pace with these demands.
Secondly, as a practical matter the various time-sharing developments
are not at all easy on the 704 and are much more feasible with the
circuitry and design of the 7090 computer.

F. J. Corbate

November 1%, 1959