A

TBM Computer 2e

With a staff of more than thirty neople, the M.,I.T. center will
be the largest and most versatile data processing facility yet to be
made available primarily 2or education and basic research, IBM not
only will install the machine but will contribute to the cost of main-
taining and operating it, The company will also make a grant support-
ing studies of research assistants to be selected fromNew England
colleges.

nThe development and application of electronic data processing 18
profoundly influencing tine education and work of engineers, while at
the same time the use of computers 18 ranidly spreading in science,
government, jndustry and business," sald a «tatement issued by Dr.
Killian and !r. Watson.,

N"great computing machines are maliing vossible advances 1in research
and analyses not hitherto nossible and consequently are becoming
essential tools for business and financial organizations. ducational
institutions will make increasing use of them and will have & major
responsibility to educate men and women €O realize thelr full poten-
tials."

M.I.T.'s School of Industrial “anagenent plans to undertake a new
program Of studies in "operations regearch," the new field in which
data processing methods are annlied to manufacturing and distribution
problems that are so complex they could never be solved by old-
fashioned methods.

Other fields in which research 1s expected TO be done include
aerodynamlcs, where computations will lead to & better understanding
of shock waves ot transonic and supersonic speed; meteorology, where
rapid agsimilation ~f weather data cal 1ead to better forecasting;
atomic research, where calculations can throw new light on sub-atomic

particles, and solid state physics, in which efforts are peing made tO
(more)