Minutes of the Sixth Meeting of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation ' -2—

personnel to teach it needed to be settled before one could de-
lineate in more detail what the course should contain.

The Committee next turned to contracts. It was agreed that,
implicitly or explicitly, contracts should containprovisions for
the support of educational activities and research. These should
be flexible. The contract for Whirlwind was discussed. Here the
Government contributes the major fraction of its support. The
understanding is that the machine would be available half-time for
educational activities, although it is not explicitly stated in
the contract what the actual time fraction is. The contracting
agency has, at times, brought in outside as well as inside groups
who have an interest in using the machines for calculations. These
were generally scientific in nature, though not all were in this
category. The use of machines by members of the Institute working
on other contracts for the Government was discussed. It was felt
that if the problem is of a fundamental scientific nature this
should be included in the category of machine time for educational
and scientific research. 0n the other hand, it was felt that no
contract at the Institute should be drawn which depended on the
essential existence of a machine without further discussion.

The next meeting will be January 10, at 9:30 A.M., in Room
6nlO9. The above discussion will be continued, and, in addition,
the program for the Computation seminar for next term will be
considered.

M I‘Fw‘ﬁnghd.

Herman Feshbaoh