;?
|

gy ey

e
i

K
P
f

 

b
S
e
&l
(
r
"

 

January 15, 1957

Dre. R. S. Mulllken
Department of Physiecs

The University of Chiecago
Chicago 37, Illinols

Dear Bob:
In answer to your four questions of January 2:

1. There is some spare time right now on Whirlwind but I
imagine that the demand for time will get greater and greater
the nearer we approach the middle of June. If there is any
possibility of your actually using 32 hours or more, you
should plan %o use as much of 1t before March as you can. In
fact, we urge you to get started immedlately.

2, ONR is the reason that we are having to charge for Whirl-
wind time. PFor several years the Mathematlcs Division of ONR
supported Whirlwind directly and we were able to provide '
machine time to users as a result. Last year the other divi-
sions of ONR decided that they would not cooperate any longer
with the Mathematiecs Division and that they preferred to have
their projects pay for Whirlwind time directly rather than
indirectly as was done before. Consequently, it is ONR's
decision that we charge 8250 an hour for machine time. The
other divisions of ONR have agreed to provide the necessary
funds to the projects on the budgets. This is the reason we
are having to turn Whirlwind back to Lincoln.

3. It 1s very clear that there will be no spare Whirlwind
time next year. Lincoln is going to use it for a concentrated
text, which will probably use the full time, and when this
text is finished the machine probably will be scrapped.

4. We can arrange for you to get Whirlwind time on a straight
purchase order. I am enclosing the necessary forms and
instructions.

We hope to hear from you soon concerning your plans.

Yours,

PMM s LWH Phillip M. Morse
Â¢ec: Dr. Verzuh
Prof. Slater